This page summarizes some things related to tablets and drivers.

= Introduction =

While working on the driver I stumbled over several issues I would like to share.


= Aspect Ratio =

Most tablets still arrive in the width:height ratio 4:3. Modern MacBooks come with a 16:9 or even 16:10 ratio. If not addressed properly this will disort your images somehow. You have a longer way to travel the height of the tablet than there is screen space.

Let's do a little calculation:
  * my 12000U has a resolution of 6000x4500 which gives it a perfect 4:3 ratio
  * the screen of my MacBook shows as 1280x800 which reads as 16:10 (changing screen size isn't an opportunity)
  * using 16:10 ratio the active height of the tablet should be restricted to 3750
  * this leads to a modified resolution of 6000x3750 needed for the tablet

  * using 16:9 ratio the active height of the tablet should be restricted to 3375
  * this leads to a modified resolution of 6000x3375 needed for the tablet

Changing the effective resolution is done with options -w and -h respectively. The resulting command for 16:10 ratio:
{{{
./hyperpen -w 6000 -h 3750
}}}

Going for Hypern Pen Mini which has a width of 12288 leads to a height of 7680:
{{{
./hyperpen -w 12288 -h 7680 -v 0x172f -p 0x37
}}}

= User Response =

Somehow it's interesting to see how many people actually download the driver. There seems to be a real need for it. To date two users have responded to my wish to get some feedback. Both of them seemed quite happy with the driver.

I would like others to respond as well. So I can learn which tablets the driver works with. Others would profit as well - cause the setting for their specific tablet would be known/documented.

= Launching Daemon at System Startup =

It would be convenient for the average user to launch the driver during system startup. At the moment I am still developing the driver, so it wouldn't be helpful in my setting. Although I describe how you could achieve it.

You need to add information to two directories:
  * `/Library/Application Support/`
  * `/Library/LaunchAgents/`

... to be continued soon